# Publish AUR package

GitHub Actions to publish AUR package.

## Inputs

### `pkgname`

**Required** AUR package name.

### `pkgbuild`

**Required** Path to PKGBUILD file. This file is often generated by prior steps.

### `assets`

**Optional** Newline-separated glob patterns for additional files to be added to the AUR repository.
Glob patterns will be expanded by bash when copying the files to the repository.

### `updpkgsums`

**Optional** Update checksums using `updpkgsums`.

### `test`

**Optional** Check that PKGBUILD could be built.

### `test_flags`

**Optional** Command line flags for makepkg to build the package (if `test` is enabled). The default flags are `--clean --cleanbuild --nodeps`.

### `post_process`

**Optional** A line of commands to execute after processing the package.

### `commit_username`

**Required** The username to use when creating the new commit.

### `commit_email`

**Required** The email to use when creating the new commit.

### `ssh_private_key`

**Required** Your private key with access to AUR package.

### `commit_message`

**Optional** Commit message to use when creating the new commit.

### `allow_empty_commits`

**Optional** Allow empty commits, i.e. commits with no change. The default value is `false`.

### `force_push`

**Optional** Use `--force` when push to the AUR. The default value is `false`.

### `ssh_keyscan_types`

**Optional** Comma-separated list of types to use when adding aur.archlinux.org to known hosts.

## Few others have been added in updattes, can check them out from actions.yml

## Example usage

```yaml
name: aur-publish

on:
  push:
    tags:
      - '*'

jobs:
  aur-publish:
    runs-on: ubuntu-latest
    steps:
      - uses: actions/checkout@v2

      - name: Generate PKGBUILD
        run: bash ./generate-pkgbuild.bash

      - name: Publish AUR package
        uses: mlm-games/aur-deploy-action@<TAG>
        with:
          pkgname: my-awesome-package # auto configures from pkgbuild if not provided
          pkgbuild: ./PKGBUILD # default
          commit_username: ${{ secrets.AUR_USERNAME }}
          commit_email: ${{ secrets.AUR_EMAIL }}
          ssh_private_key: ${{ secrets.AUR_SSH_PRIVATE_KEY }}
          commit_message: Update AUR package
          ssh_keyscan_types: rsa,ecdsa,ed25519
```

**Note:** Replace `<TAG>` in the above code snippet with a tag of this repo.

**Tip:** To create secrets (such as `secrets.AUR_USERNAME`, `secrets.AUR_EMAIL`, and `secrets.AUR_SSH_PRIVATE_KEY` above), go to `$YOUR_GITHUB_REPO_URL/settings/secrets`. [Read this for more information](https://help.github.com/en/actions/configuring-and-managing-workflows/creating-and-storing-encrypted-secrets).

**Tip:** This action does not generate PKGBUILD for you, you must generate it yourself (e.g. by using actions before this action).

## License (og)

[MIT](https://git.io/JfWEM) © [Hoàng Văn Khải](https://github.com/KSXGitHub/)
